RHIDP-13359: Lightspeed 1.10 changes (#2210)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/shared/proc-configure-by-using-the-helm-chart.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="configure-by-using-the-helm-chart_{context}"]
= Configure {ls-short} by using the Helm chart

[role="_abstract"]
Configure {ls-short} by using the Helm chart to manage large language model (LLM) providers, enable validation guardrails, and authorize custom role-based access control (RBAC) policies.

.Prerequisites
* You have access to a running {product-very-short} instance deployed with Helm.
* You have operational credentials for your chosen LLM provider.

.Procedure

> . Create a manual Kubernetes Secret to store your provider credentials.

Reviewer: For consistency: your custom secret rather than manual?

Reviewer: + the step is missing: what should the secret contain? reference to another location that describe it?

+
[NOTE]
====
By default, the Helm installation creates a temporary Kubernetes Secret containing keys for various LLM providers. On subsequent `helm upgrade` cycles, the system overwrites this default Secret. Create a manual Kubernetes Secret to persist your credentials.
====

> . Add the required keys to your secret based on your provider requirements:

Reviewer: Consider combining with step 1 for clarity.

+
include::snip-lightspeed-secret-keys.adoc[]
+
[NOTE]
====
Vertex AI requires custom architecture mapping and has received limited testing.
====

> . Optional: To filter and reject off-topic user queries, add validation guardrails to your manual Secret:

Reviewer: This is a note on snip-lightspeed-secret-keys.adoc, not an additional step. Consider transforming into an admonition attached to the previous step.

* Set `ENABLE_VALIDATION` to `"true"`.
* Set `VALIDATION_PROVIDER` to your enabled validation provider (for example, `openai`).
* Set `VALIDATION_MODEL_NAME` to your specific verification model (for example, `gpt-4o-mini`).

. Reference your manual secret inside the `values.yaml` file:
+
[source,yaml]
----
global:
  lightspeed:
    secret:
      create: false
      name: "my-custom-secret"
----

> . Optional: To protect configuration files like `lightspeed-stack.yaml`, `config.yaml`, or `rhdh-profile.py` from being overwritten during updates, use a custom ConfigMap:

Reviewer: ConfigMap -> config map

The sentence is confusing: do you mean:

* Add your custom `lightspeed-stack.yaml`, `config.yaml`, or `rhdh-profile.py` files to a custom config map and reference them in your `app-config.yaml` file as following: (and the example is an `app-config.yaml` snippet)

* Or is the example a config map snippet?

Reviewer 2: We are talking about Kubernetes resources here, so unless for technical writing you prefer to lowercase it, `ConfigMap` would be the official naming standard https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/configmap/.

For the protection, possibly this is better wording on how it works:
```suggestion
. Optional: Configuration files such as `lightspeed-stack.yaml`, `config.yaml` and `rhdh-profile.py` are managed by the Helm deployment and will overwrite changes on `Helm upgrade` runs. To protect changes to a file, create a custom ConfigMap and reference it in the `values.yaml` file:
```

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="configure-by-using-the-helm-chart_{context}"]
= Configure {ls-short} by using the Helm chart

[role="_abstract"]
Configure {ls-short} by using the Helm chart to manage large language model (LLM) providers, enable validation guardrails, and authorize custom role-based access control (RBAC) policies.

.Prerequisites
* You have access to a running {product-very-short} instance deployed with Helm.
* You have operational credentials for your chosen LLM provider.

.Procedure

> . Optional: To disable the chat interface, update the `global.lightspeed.enabled` parameter to `false` in your Helm `values.yaml` file:

Reviewer 3: Same comment as previously. Should be a separate procedure on how to disable Lightspeed.

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="configure-by-using-the-helm-chart_{context}"]
= Configure {ls-short} by using the Helm chart

[role="_abstract"]
Configure {ls-short} by using the Helm chart to manage large language model (LLM) providers, enable validation guardrails, and authorize custom role-based access control (RBAC) policies.

.Prerequisites
* You have access to a running {product-very-short} instance deployed with Helm.
* You have operational credentials for your chosen LLM provider.

.Procedure

. Optional: To disable the chat interface, update the `global.lightspeed.enabled` parameter to `false` in your Helm `values.yaml` file:
+
[source,yaml]
----
global:
  lightspeed:
    enabled: false
----

. Create a manual Kubernetes Secret to store your provider credentials.
+
[NOTE]
====

> By default, the Helm installation creates a temporary Kubernetes Secret containing keys for various LLM providers. On subsequent `helm upgrade` cycles, the system deletes this default Secret. You must create a manual Kubernetes Secret to persist your credentials.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, the Helm installation creates a temporary Kubernetes Secret containing keys for various LLM providers. On subsequent `helm upgrade` cycles, the system overwrites this default Secret. You must create a manual Kubernetes Secret to persist your credentials.
```

====
+
Add the following keys to your secret based on your provider requirements:
`vLLM`:: 
** Set `ENABLE_VLLM` to `"true"`
** Set `VLLM_URL` to `"<your_url>/v1"`
** Set `VLLM_API_KEY` to your key string
`OpenAI`:: 
** Set `ENABLE_OPENAI` to `"true"`
** Set `OPENAI_API_KEY` to your secret key
`Ollama`:: 
** Set `ENABLE_OLLAMA` to `"true"`
** Set `OLLAMA_URL` to your endpoint URL
`Vertex AI`:: 
** Set `ENABLE_VERTEX_AI` to `"true"`
** Set `VERTEX_AI_PROJECT` to your project ID
** Set `VERTEX_AI_LOCATION` to your region
** Set `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` to the path of your mounted credentials JSON file. 
+
[NOTE]
====
Vertex AI requires custom architecture mapping and has received limited testing.
====

. Optional: To filter and reject off-topic user queries, add validation guardrails to your manual Secret:
* Set `ENABLE_VALIDATION` to `"true"`.
* Set `VALIDATION_PROVIDER` to your enabled validation provider (for example, `openai`).
* Set `VALIDATION_MODEL_NAME` to your specific verification model (for example, `gpt-4o-mini`).

> . Reference your manual secret inside the `values.yaml` file:

Reviewer 2: Wonder if all this (environment variable setting) for the Secret can be its own section and used in both the Helm and Operator sections? Since they will have the same Secret keys

+
[source,yaml]
----
global:
  lightspeed:
    secret:
      create: false
      name: "my-custom-secret"
----

. Optional: To protect configuration files like `lightspeed-stack.yaml`, `config.yaml`, or `rhdh-profile.py` from being overwritten during updates, you must use a custom ConfigMap:
+
[source,yaml]
----
global:
  lightspeed:
    configMaps:
      - name: stack
        create: false
        nameOverride: "my-custom-stack"
        mountPath: /app-root/lightspeed-stack.yaml
        subPath: lightspeed-stack.yaml
        sourceFile: lightspeed-stack.yaml

>         optional: false

Reviewer 2: It's important you _only_ update the `create` and `nameOverride` fields, the paths/file should remain consistent with what is there

----

. To grant non-administrator teams access to the virtual assistant, append permission strings to the `rbac-policies.csv` section of your `values.yaml` file, replacing `<team>` with the target group name:
+
[source,text]
----
p, role:default/<team>, lightspeed.chat.read, read, allow

> p, role:default/<team>, lightspeed.chat.create, create, allow

Reviewer 2: Same as the Secret section, RBAC would be similar across Helm + Operator so maybe a dedicated RBAC section?
